
    ######################################################################
    UCSC copy of this file from:
    
    ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank/genomes/Eukaryotes/vertebrates_mammals/Homo_sapiens/GRCh38/seqs_for_alignment_pipelines/README_ANALYSIS_SETS
    
    Files included in this directory:
    
    hg38.analysisSet.2bit - analysis set sequence
    hg38.analysisSet.chroms.tar.gz - analysis set sequence one file per chromosome
        The analysis set sequence is masked as mentioned in ../README.txt,
        repeats from RepeatMasker and Tandem Repeats Finder
        (with period of 12 or less) are shown in lower case;
        non-repeating sequence is shown in upper case.
    
    hg38.fullAnalysisSet.2bit - all of the sequence from the above set,
        plus all of the alt-scaffolds from the GRCh38 ALT_REF_LOCI_* assembly units.
    hg38.fullAnalysisSet.chroms.tar.gz - all of the sequence from the above set,
        plus all of the alt-scaffolds from the GRCh38 ALT_REF_LOCI_* assembly units.
        The analysis set sequence is masked as mentioned in ../README.txt,
        repeats from RepeatMasker and Tandem Repeats Finder
        (with period of 12 or less) are shown in lower case;
        non-repeating sequence is shown in upper case.
    
    md5sum.txt - checksums of files in this directory
    
    ######################################################################
    
    README_ANALYSIS_SETS from ftp://ftp.ncbi.nih.gov/genbank/genomes/
    Eukaryotes/vertebrates_mammals/Homo_sapiens/GRCh38/
    seqs_for_alignment_pipelines
    
    Updated: 11 January 2014
    
    ######################################################################
    
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    
    NOTE: 11 January 2014
    Updated analysis sets were released which had two changes from the
    files released on 24 December 2013:
    1. An Epstein-Barr virus sequence (chrEBV) sequence was added.
    2. MD5 checksums were added to the definition lines of all sequences.
    
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    
    Outline
    ========
    
    1. Introduction
    2. File names and contents
    3. Sequence names
    4. Metadata Tag-value pairs
    5. Definitions
    
    
    1. Introduction
    ===============
    
    The files in this directory provide the FASTA format sequences for a
    genome assembly in a package convenient for use by various Next
    Generation Sequence read alignment pipelines. The sequence names,
    sequence order, and format of the sequence definition lines, were
    developed in consultation with several developers and major users of
    alignment pipelines.
    
    
    2. File names and contents
    ==========================
    
    GCA_000001405.15_GRCh38_no_alt_analysis_set.fna.gz is a gzipped 
    file that contains FASTA format sequences for the following:
    1. chromosomes from the GRCh38 Primary Assembly unit.
    Note: the two PAR regions on chrY have been hard-masked with Ns. The
    chromosome Y sequence provided therefore has the same coordinates as
    the GenBank sequence but it is not identical to the GenBank sequence.
    Similarly, duplicate copies of centromeric arrays and WGS on 
    chromosomes 5, 14, 19, 21 & 22 have been hard-masked with Ns.
    2. mitochondrial genome from the GRCh38 non-nuclear assembly unit.
    3. unlocalized scaffolds from the GRCh38 Primary Assembly unit.
    4. unplaced scaffolds from the GRCh38 Primary Assembly unit.
    5. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) sequence
    Note: The EBV sequence is not part of the genome assembly but is 
    included in the analysis set as a sink for alignment of reads that
    are often present in sequencing samples.
    
    GCA_000001405.15_GRCh38_full_analysis_set.fna.gz is a gzipped file
    that contains all the same FASTA formatted sequences as
    GCA_000001405.15_GRCh38_no_alt_analysis_set.fna.gz, plus:
    6. alt-scaffolds from the GRCh38 ALT_REF_LOCI_* assembly units.
    
    
    3. Sequence names
    =================
    
    The sequence names in the analysis sets follow UCSC-style naming 
    patterns.
    
    Chromosomes:
    chr{chromosome number or name}
    e.g. chr1 or chrX
    chrM for the mitochondrial genome.
    
    Unlocalized scaffolds:
    chr{chromosome number or name}_{sequence_accession}v{sequence_version}_random
    e.g. chr17_GL000205v2_random
    
    Unplaced scaffolds:
    chrUn_{sequence_accession}v{sequence_version}
    e.g. chrUn_GL000220v1
    
    Alternate loci scaffolds:
    chr{chromosome number or name}_{sequence_accession}v{sequence_version}_alt
    e.g. chr6_GL000250v2_alt
    
    
    4. Metadata tag-value pairs
    ===========================
    
    The FASTA definition lines contain sequences metadata in a series of
    space-separated tag-value pairs.
    
    Tag Value
    --- -----
    AC: sequence accession.version
    gi: sequence gi
    LN: sequence length
    rg: region
        - chromosome to which unlocalized scaffolds are assigned,
           e.g. chr1
        - region on chromosome within which alt-scaffolds or patch 
          scaffolds are placed, e.g. chr6:28696604-33335493
        - not present for chromosomes, other replicons, or unplaced 
          scaffolds 
    rl: role of the sequence in the assembly
        - possible values are: Chromosome, Mitochondrion, unlocalized, 
          unplaced, alt-scaffold fix-patch, novel-patch, decoy
    M5: md5 checksum of the sequence as a single string of uppercase 
        letters without line breaks (as produced by Samtools or Picard)
    AS: assembly-name
    hm: hard-masked regions, either a single span, two spans separated by
        a comma, or "multiple" if more than two spans were hard-masked
    tp: topology
        - circular for chrM and chrEBV
        - not present for linear chromosomes and scaffolds
    
    
    5. Definitions
    ==============
    
    Unlocalized sequence:
    A sequence found in an assembly that is associated with a specific 
    chromosome but cannot be ordered or oriented on that chromosome. 
    
    Unplaced sequence:
    A sequence found in an assembly that is not associated with any 
    chromosome.  
    
    Alt-scaffold:
    A scaffold that provides an alternate representation of a locus found
    in the primary assembly. These sequences do not represent a complete
    chromosome sequence although there is no hard limit on the size of the
    alternate locus; currently these are less than 1 Mb.
    
    Major release:
    The formal release of a genome assembly, e.g. GRCh38.
    
    Minor release:
    A release of a genome assembly including patches that occurs between
    major releases.
    
    Genome Patch:
    A sequence contig/scaffold that corrects sequence in a major release
    of the genome, or adds sequence to it.
    
    Fix-patch:
    A patch that corrects sequence or reduces an assembly gap in a given
    major release. FIX patch sequences are meant to be incorporated into
    the primary or existing alt-loci assembly units at the next major
    release.
    
    Novel-patch:
    A patch that adds sequence to a major release. Typically, NOVEL patch
    sequences are meant to be incorporated into the assembly as new
    alternate loci at the next major release.
    
    Decoy:
    A sequence that is not part of the genome assembly but is included in
    an analysis set as a sink for alignment of reads that are often
    present in sequencing samples.

  

